# Problems that Need to be Solved

The MARC21 instance of the Z39.2 format contains some inherent limitations: a maximum of 36 possible subfields to a field, and two indicator positions, to begin with. There are fields that have exhausted the range of the single-character subfield code (77X linking fields and the 856 field, for example) making it impossible to add needed values to the field. 

The sheer number of data elements in the record is a burden for users of the standard as well as for its maintenance. Some of the data elements appear in every or nearly every record; some are used infrequently.  Infrequent use does not mean necessarily that a data element is unimportant; it may indicate that the element is relevant to a small number of works or to a particular specialty within the cataloging community. The users of the MARC21 record are heterogeneous in nature, from the libraries serving the general public, to research libraries, to specialized archives. 

In the presentation of the MARC21 standard, all fields are currently given equal value and presented in tag order, which for a beginner is like getting computer documentation in the form of a list of hundreds of commands in alphabetical order. Some of this treatment of all fields being of equal value is a philosophical decision in support of the integration of the separate MARC formats in 1993. Format integration should not preclude the recognition of core data elements and specific extensions to that core, although defining a single core for all materials will not be easy. 

The fixed fields provide their own difficulties. Some fixed field values have proven to be too limited for data that needs to be entered. For example, the 008 language code allows the input of only one language for each described resource. A variable length field, the 041, had to be developed to allow the coding of additional language information, such as the language of translation or multiple languages for multi-lingual works. 

The fixed fields have other problems. As conceived, these fields would provide coded values for data often entered elsewhere in the record. For example, the physical description field (300) provides subfields where one can enter the dimensions of a film; the fixed field that encodes physical format information carries similar data elements for dimensions, although in a coded format (i.e. the fixed data element for 35 mm. films is 007 position 07, value "f"). At this time it is unclear how the fixed fields are serving the community. It appears that few library systems make use of them for retrieval in spite of the fact that they were often motivated by an assumption that coded values would be more useful to systems than textual descriptions of the same data. They are costly to input correctly and it is evident to anyone examining records that the fixed fields are often not input in full detail. 

Because the data elements in the fixed fields are positional, circumstances require the input of placeholders for positions that are not applicable or that the cataloger chooses not to code. There is a tendency for systems to fill these unused positions with default values to reduce the amount of keying that needs to be done. These default values at best provide no information, and at worst could be inaccurate (i.e. in cases where there is both a "not applicable" and a "no attempt to code", neither will be true for every time the value is not explicitly chosen by the cataloger).  

A greater problem with the fixed fields is that the actual values of the fields are part of the MARC21 standard. This means that adding to the values of the fixed fields requires a change to the standard itself, a relatively lengthy and onerous process. Given that some of the physical description fixed fields are for media that are undergoing rapid technological change, this dependency on the standard for coded values (which is not extended to the textual values in the variable fields) is a hindrance to the communities that are creating catalog records for those resources. Also, there is no method for inputting the "other" values not included in the fixed lists of values for the variable fields, even though some do have a code for "other." This means that the parallel between the display form of the data and the fixed field is incomplete and therefore unreliable.

There is considerable repeat of data elements across the variable fields. Personal name, corporate name, and title information are found throughout the record, although not always with the same associated subfields . As an example, titles are coded differently when they are entered as added entries as opposed to main entries; a main entry can consist of a uniform title plus a title, while a title added entry can have only a single title, generally agreed to be the uniform title, but without all of the subfield codes available in the uniform title field in the title area. Combined author/title fields have some subfields that could be associated with either the author or the title, and therefore could sometimes be ambiguous (i.e. $g Miscellaneous information). 

Linking between fields and between records is possible using coded data in the MARC21 record. Linking between fields is used to bring together transliterated and vernacular versions of the same field, and to unite descriptive fields for the parts of multi-part items. This linking requires fields to contain linking identifiers and sequence numbers. This method is used because there is no way to create the links structurally as one might do with a record that allows more levels of hierarchy than MARC21. The data format does not provide a method for making the links active and inputting the field-to-field links is an awkward process, although input interfaces may facilitate the use of this feature. The method for record-to-record linking is to input a unique identifier for another record that might be found in the same database. 

The question of hierarchical levels is one that is important to the library community today and is characterized by the hierarchical view posed by the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR). FRBR is potentially a revolutionary stage in the history of cataloging rules, and a necessary update for the modern library service, but it isn't clear if the FRBR view can be supported by MARC21. FRBR is made necessary both by the increased size of collections and by the increase in technologies of information delivery. The increase in collection size means that the number of works that a user might encounter under any given heading can be very large. Some collecting of like works at a higher level than individual items would reduce the initial retrieved set that a user encounters. The increase in technologies of information presentation and delivery affects searching because the same work today can be available in multiple physical or electronic formats, some which are mere transformations of each other (i.e. MS Word and RTF, JPEG and GIF). Listing each of these separately in the catalog does not meet the needs of the searcher, yet current cataloging rules are not designed to bring these variant works together. The MARC21 record holds a single bibliographic unit that includes the physical description. Although it is possible to describe multiple physical formats in a single MARC21 record, this capability is intended for works that are themselves multi-media or that have distinct main and accompanying material. There is no provision in the record to record two entire versions of the same item.

Although FRBR is purely conceptual at this point, it does imply a new approach to cataloging that would include work, expression, manifestation, and item levels. These levels would need to be expressed in some way in the record format. The MARC21 record is based on cataloging rules that describe the manifestation level only. As the cataloging community explores the impact of FRBR on bibliographic description, we will need a record structure that can accommodate those new needs.

# Summary of Problems

The main problems that users of the MARC21 format and developers of the format standard have encountered are:

1. Limitations on the size of records that can be created with Z39.2: a maximum of 9999 characters per field and 99999 characters per record. The latter effectively limits the number of fields that a record can contain.
2. Inherent limitations in the MARC implementation of Z39.2: a maximum of 26 distinct content subfields and 10 control subfields can be defined per tag.
3. A large number of data elements with some degree of redundancy (X00 fields, X10 fields, title fields and subfields, etc.)
4. Inconsistency between the treatment of same of similar data elements across fields.
5. Fixed fields with values embedded in the standard.
6. Fixed fields that should be parallel to textual fields are a) located separately from those fields b) may not have the same values, either because of input problems or because of limitations in the value list.
7. Variable fields that extend fixed fields (i.e. 041 extending language code in 008) because of lack of flexibility in the fixed fields.
8. The use of defaults in fixed fields, which therefore convey little information because the fixed position must carry a value, even if that value is blank.
9. Record linking that are awkward to use and are not implemented by many systems.
10. A mixture of logical levels (from the work to the item level) in a single record with no structural differentiation.
